.TH STJERM "8" "2009-05-21" "stjerm" ""
.SH NAME
stjerm \- a GTK+\-based drop\-down terminal emulator.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B stjerm [-OPTION] [-OPTION] ... [-OPTION]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B stjerm
is a GTK+-based drop-down terminal emulator similar to the consoles used in 
PC games such as Quake and Half-Life 2. 
.B stjerm 
sets itself apart from similar programs by providing a minimalistic 
interface combined with a small file size, lightweight memory usage and 
easy integration with composite window managers such as Compiz. 

.B stjerm
can be configured via the command\-line or through the .Xdefaults file.

The following list of options displays the .Xdefaults 
option first (if available) followed by the command\-line option.
The command\-line options have a higher priority and 
thus, override the .Xdefaults options.
.SH NOTES
If you specify a hex color on the command\-line you have to ommit the \fB#\fR char. 
Otherwise the option will not get parsed.
This restriction only affects the command\-line options, not the .Xdefaults options.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B "\-\-help"
Print help information and exit.
.TP
.B "\-\-info"
Print .Xdefaults options and exit.
.TP
.B "\-\-version, \-\-v"
Print version information and exit.
.TP
.B "\-\-toggle"
Show/hide the current \fBstjerm\fR instance.
.TP
.B "allowbold, \-ab"
Allow bold fonts or not. Default: \fItrue\fR
.TP
.B "autohide, \-ah"
Whether or not to hide stjerm when it looses focus. Default: \fItrue\fR.
.TP
.B "background, \-bg"
Background color of the terminal. If the terminal is transparent this is the tint color. Default: \fIBlack\fR.
.TP
.B "bgimage, \-bgimg"
Background image file. Specify the filename. Default: \fIdisabled\fR.
.TP
.B "border, \-b"
Border type: thin, thick, none. Default: \fInone\fR.
.TP
.B "colorX, \-cX"
Specify color X of the terminals color palette. You may specify no palette, or a complete one with 16 total colors.
For this you have to use \-c0, \-c1, ..., \-c15 or the equivalent color0, color1,... color15.
.TP
.B "font, \-fn"
Terminal font and size (eg: Sans 10). Default: \fIBitstream Vera Sans Mono 10\fR.
.TP
.B "foreground, \-fg"
Foreground color of the terminal. This is the font color. Default: \fIWhite\fR.
.TP
.B "height, \-h"
Window height. Default: \fI400\fR.
.TP
.B "key, \-k"
Shortcut key which shows and hides \fBstjerm\fR (eg: f12). If you don't specify a shortcut key, you can only show/hide \fBstjerm\fR if you run \fBstjerm\fR with \fI\-\-toggle\fR.
.TP
.B "keymod, \-km"
Modifier for keyboard shortcuts. Can be a combination (with +) of modifiers (eg: control+alt). Default: \fIcontrol+shift\fR.
.TP
.B "lines, \-l"
Scrollback lines. 0 to disable scrollback. Default: \fI1000\fR.
.TP
.B "mod, \-m"
Modifier key, which has to be pressed in combination with the shortcut key to show/hide
.B stjerm
: shift, control, alt, windows, none. Default: \fInone\fR.
.TP
.B "opacity, \-o"
Opacity (range: 10 - 100). If compositing is enabled \fBstjerm\fR will use real transparency. Otherwise you get pseudo\-transparency.
.TP
.B "position, \-p"
Window position: top, bottom, left, right. Default: \fItop\fR.
.TP
.B "scrollbar, \-s"
Scrollbar position: left, right, none. Default: \fInone\fR.
.TP
.B "scroll, \-sc"
Whether to scroll the terminal on output. Default: \fItrue\fR.
.TP
.B "shell, \-sh"
Terminal shell. Default: the user's default shell.
.TP
.B "showtab, \-st"
Tabbar visibility: never, one, always. One means the tabbar is visible if more than one tab is opened. Default: \fIone\fR.
.TP
.B "tabfill, \-tf"
Whether tabs fill whole tabbar space. Default: \fItrue\fR.
.TP
.B "tablabel, \-tl"
Label of the tabs. The terminal number gets appended automatically. Default: \fIterm\fR.
.TP
.B "tabpos, \-tp"
Tabbar position: top, bottom, left, right. Default: \fIbottom\fR.
.TP
.B "width, \-w"
Window width. Default: \fI800\fR.
.SH EXAMPLES
To run stjerm with F12 as shortcut key, the opacity of 60 and a green foreground color, use:

stjerm -k f12 -o 60 -fg 66ff11

To specify the same options in the .Xdefaults file:

stjerm.key: f12

stjerm.opacity: 60

stjerm.foreground: #66ff11
.SH "BUGS"
Report bugs to <zero456@gmail.com>.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2007 Stjepan Glavina
.br
Copyright \(co 2007 Markus Gross
.br
Copyright \(co 2008, 2009 Thomas Pifer

This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is NO
warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
